# course_code	course_title	course_type_id	offered	frequency	summary	additional_info
INFO0590	Practicum	2	Summer	Every year	In combination with required MLIS course work, the Practicum placement in an information setting is an essential experiential learning element in the school’s curriculum, and a key element in the professional training for information management students. The 100-hour placement enables the student to test and evaluate class theory, to contribute by actual participation, and to explore areas of particular interest for course specialization and future employment. Placements are arranged in consultation with the MLIS Program Coordinator.	
INFO2000	Modern Information Sharing	1	Fall	Every year	Focused primarily on skill set development, this course provides the student with an introduction to the practical application of theory in communicating in the workforce and preparing students to represent organizations to the wider community. We will address specific organizational communications and information management knowledge requirements for today’s information managers and focus on enhancing the student’s capacity for creative application of that knowledge to achieve success an employees. Students will practice using the knowledge derived from the course readings to formulate effective courses of action in an organization through case studies and online interactions.	NO SYLLABUS
INFO2001	Digital Society	1	Winter	Every year	Digital technologies (Facebook, Twitter, mobile phones) have become normalized and are an integral part of many people’s everyday lives. This course introduces the societal dimensions of today's information-rich environment. Society is being transformed, with information and information technology at the center, such as artificial intelligence and blockchain. Students will investigate various platforms and the social implications these have on the free-flow of information, privacy and ethical aspects of knowledge production.	NO SYLLABUS
INFO5500	Information in Society	2	Fall	Every year	INFO5500 introduces the field of information and the economic, political, and social dimensions of the information society. In this course, students will explore a wide range of topics including the production, dissemination, use, valuation, ethics, and legal aspects of information.	
INFO5515	Organization of Information	2	Fall	Every year	Organization of Information introduces students to the theory and application of organizing information in various formats. Primary topics throughout the course include description and representation of information in various media; metadata; subject classification theory and techniques; authority control; controlled vocabulary; indexing fundamentals; and the relationship between organization and information retrieval systems. Traditional library-oriented practices, and more recent digital and online techniques, tools, and theories, are examined. This course will be conducted online, through Brightspace. The course will be asynchronous, meaning all students may access course materials and participate in discussion at any time, from anywhere.	
INFO5520	Research Methods	2	Winter	Every year	Information professionals require knowledge of formal research processes in order to support the goals of their organization by contributing to evidence-based decision-making. This course introduces fundamental concepts of research, the nature and uses of research, tools and methods (both quantitative and qualitative), handling of evidence, analysis and interpretation of findings, reporting of results, evaluation of published reports, and the practice and management of research.	
INFO5530	Information Sources, Services, and Retrieval	2	Fall	Every year	This course is both a theoretical and practical introduction to information services, sources, and retrieval (traditionally known as “reference work”) in an array of settings. We will discuss users and their information-seeking behaviours, major categories of online and print reference resources, evolving trends in the profession, community participation, and the practice of finding and connecting users with appropriate resources in the 21st century. In the new information environment, librarians and other information specialists take on ever-expanding roles as, variously, educators, information literacy instructors, entertainment advisors, experts in publishing, research, scholarly communication and bibliometrics, and collaborators in content creation. This course, including all assignments and exercises, was originally designed and created by Lindsay McNiff. The instructions about participation, below, were adapted from content by Alison Brown.	
INFO5570	Organizational Management and Strategy	3	Winter	Every year	ntroduces management theories and practices for organizational functions occurring in any type of information setting. Examines elements involved in effective strategic planning, implementation and management including personnel, budgeting, policy writing, and change management. The INFO 5570 capstone is intended to bring synthesis to the whole of the MLIS experience.	
INFO5590	Information Management Systems	2	Fall/Summer	Every year	In Information Management Systems we will investigate a wide range of current issues in information technology, information systems, and web-based applications with a particular emphasis on mobile and social media applications and services. We will also explore the principles of user interface design, systems analysis, information needs analysis, information systems requirements and project planning. Finally, we will examine how modern information and communication technologies (ICTs) have been and are changing the way we communicate, collaborate, share information, innovate, perform, socialize and work, and how these technological changes are affecting the role and functions of information managers in the public and private sectors.	
INFO6070	Reading and Reading Practices	1	Summer	alternating even years	This seminar class will examine theories of reading from social, psychological and literary perspectives. The class will discuss literary practices and the evolution of the concept of literacy in an era of cultural and technological change.	
INFO6090	Culture of Privacy	1	Summer	alternating odd years	This course explores the ever evolving area of privacy. What is the current culture of privacy? What will privacy look like into the future? As a professional, you need to understand the culture of privacy and develop the skills, knowledge, and competencies to apply a privacy filter to your world. Through discussion, readings, and observation this course will provide you an holistic view of the understanding, application, and evolution of privacy.	
INFO6100	Information in Public Policy and Decision Making	1	Winter	Every year	This course will be team taught be faculty members from the Schools of Information Management, Public Administration, Resource and Environmental Studies, and the Marine Affairs Program. The course addresses the question of how information is used in policy making at local, national, and international levels. While modern policy making prescribes the use of the best available information, evidence-based policy making is relatively new and challenging due to the large quantities of information. This course will examine the role of information, arising from various research domains, in policy decisions, and will give particular attention to the interface between research and policy decisions. The course will draw on research-based case studies to illustrate enablers and barriers affecting the use and influence of information.	
INFO6150	History of the Book	1	Winter	alternating odd years	Explores the history of the book from its early beginnings to its present manifestations. While greatest emphasis will be placed upon the history of the book from the mid-15th century to the present, the course will also discuss the history of important precursors of mechanical printing, and literacy, books, and manuscripts in the ancient and medieval periods.	
INFO6250	Services and Resources for Young Adults	1	Winter	alternating odd years	Introduces the social, intellectual and psychological nature of adolescence, with respect to reading, listening and viewing interests.	
INFO6270	Introduction to Data Science	4	Winter	every year	This course serves as an introduction to data science, an increasingly important set of skills and techniques for business intelligence, effective governance, and the research process. The amount of data we generate increases year on year. As computers have begun to play roles in many aspects of our daily life, our actions and interactions leave digital traces. This has led both to an explosion in the amount of data that we generate and an increased interest in analyzing and understanding that data. This class will give you an introduction to the skills you need to effectively collect, manipulate, and analyze data yourself. Rather than being constrained to using any specific data analysis software, we will focus on using the flexible programming language Python. You will receive a thorough introduction to Python, learning how to use a variety of its built-in capabilities as well as a number of available data analysis packages. By the course’s end you should be capable enough that you will be able to begin teaching yourself and expanding your data science skills.	
INFO6290	Managing Research Data	1	Fall	alternating odd years	Data is essential to the research process, and is an essential product of research.  As the volume, variety, and velocity of research data continues to expand, researchers and funding agencies are recognizing the value of proactive research data management (RDM), and are turning to information professionals to help.  This course covers RDM policy, plans, and practice through both theory and practical application.  Students will gain and put into practice knowledge on how to assess requirements; produce practical plans; manage data throughout its lifecycle; curate, preserve and rescue data; and work with international research data standards, across a variety of disciplines.	
INFO6300	Government Information Resources	1	Summer	alternating even years	This course will examine the ways in which various levels of government structure organize, produce, and disseminate information for a range of internal & external purposes. The emphasis will be on growing digital resources and approaches for accessing these types of material. There will be a focus on Canadian content with additional consideration of American, British, foreign and international resources, including specialized agencies such as the United Nations. The course will include a practical perspective for those seeking employment working with government information resources at provincial and/or federal levels.	
INFO6310	Resources for Business Intelligence	1	Hiatus	Hiatus	Examines the value of information in a competitive environment from the perspectives of various types of business information, cost and management of information, developments on the Internet, and the role of governments. In addition, discerning client needs and packaging of information for client use are considered.	
INFO6320	Legal Literature and Librarianship	1	Winter	alternating odd years	An introduction to the major sources of Canadian legal information, and the fundamental principles, issues, and practices in law librarianship.	
INFO6330	Cataloguing & Classification	1	Winter	Every year	Examines the theories, principles, and practices of bibliographic description, including the application of national standards. Covers the description of print and non-print sources, principles and practices of authority work, the application of encoding standards, and the use of bibliographic classification systems. Examines trends and future directions of bibliographic description.	
INFO6370	Records Management	1	Winter	Every year	A comprehensive introduction to the field of records and information management. Topics covered include: records creation, evaluation, maintenance and control; issues related to the maintenance, storage and disposition of records; and electronic records management.	
INFO6400	Knowledge Management	1	Fall	alternating even years	Surveys the latest Knowledge Management theories and practices from information science, management, cognitive/educational psychology and computer science.  Focuses on the nature of knowledge construction by examining the identification, capture, application and sharing of organizational knowledge, cognitive techniques and the technological systems that facilitate these processes.	
INFO6450	Services and Resources for Children	1	Winter	alternating even years	Examines the reading and viewing interests of children. Topics covered include a brief overview of developmental psychology, the history of children's literature, developing successful library programmes for children and their caregivers, building the children's library collection, and enhancing children's visual literacy.	
INFO6500	Community-Led Services	1	Summer	alternating odd years	Students will learn how to identify the interests and needs of particular client groups, and how to integrate these needs into the ongoing operations of an information organization.  Particular attention will be given to working in the community with vulnerable community members and applying the Community-Led Library Service Model.	
INFO6513	Business Analytics and Data Visualization	4	Fall	every year	This course provides an introduction to Business Analytics and Data Visualization. It covers the processes, methodologies and practices used to transform the large amounts of business and public data (referred to as "Big Data") into useful information to support business decision-making. This course will cover basic data models for database management and data warehouses.	
INFO6540	Data Management	2	Winter	Every year	Introduces the theory and practice of managing data, covering technology-driven solutions to the challenges of storing, curating, and retrieving unstructured, semi-structured, and structured data. Topics include tabular data, assessing data management requirements, data models and schemas, relational database management systems, SQL, post-relational DBMSs, Big Data, and visualization.	
INFO6560	Information Resources Management	1	Fall	Every year	Examines information resource management (IRM) theories and methods, including exploration of issues associated with the information marketplace, resource evaluation and acquisition, policies, budget allocation, and vendor and user relations.	
INFO6610	Information Policy	1	Fall	Alternating Odd Years	Explores, in a graduate seminar setting, a range of issues currently facing information professionals and the effect of these issues on policy development. Discusses the roles of all levels of government, the private and not-for-profit sectors, and key individuals, in developing policies which affect information creation, control, access and use. Focuses on Canadian issues, and includes international affairs as appropriate to the information society.	
INFO6620	Web Design & Architecture	4	Winter	Every year	Examines the theories, techniques and processes used to create, structure, and deliver electronic text. Topics include writing and design for the web, information architecture, and document analysis for digitization. Focuses on practical experience with HTML and CSS, TEI standards, XML, and XSLT.	
INFO6630	User Experience	1	Fall	alternating even years	Explores how technology affects human use, and examines the process from conception of an idea to design and evaluation, with a particular emphasis on Web-based activities.	
INFO6640	Expert Searching for Clients	1	Hiatus	Hiatus	Explores the principles and methods involved in the retrieval of information from online databases. Topics discussed include the organization and structure of online databases, the formulation of search strategies, the evaluation of the content and search interfaces of online databases, and the management of online search services.	
INFO6681	Geospatial Information Management	4	Fall	Every year	Spatial Information is the air and water that makes mapping and spatial analysis possible. Mobile applications using maps are some of the most popular and often used web-based applications; they are also cloud based which added another layer of management issues. Maps, GIS and the use of spatial information have never been more popular or public. This course addresses the effective management of spatial information. The course covers principles and practices associated with metadata, GIS, licensing, spatial information databases, map libraries and archives, spatial data infrastructures and web-based delivery of products and services, as well as distributed systems such as geolibraries, ‘digital earth’ and the development of the 'spatial cloud'. This course is geared towards the manager who seeks to deploy services associated with spatial information and effectively develop an enterprise approach to managing spatial information. The course will also provide hands-on experience in using GIS and related technologies so as to be able to better understand how to deploy services, especially over the web.	
INFO6682	Human Information Interaction	1	Winter	alternating even years	This course will examine information seeking behaviour in a variety of settings (health care, private and public organizations, academic institutions, etc.), individual and group information seeking and use in these contexts, and the theories and models of information seeking behaviour that explore and explain information behaviour.	
INFO6700	Reading Course	1		Fall, Winter & Summer terms	Reading courses are intended to add flexibility to your MLIS program by providing you with an opportunity to develop a specific interest in the information management field.  A reading course will enable you to study an aspect of a topic in greater detail than is possible within an existing course, or study an area not covered by the curriculum.  Reading courses also allow you to conduct a research study or special project.	NO SYLLABUS
INFO6710	Reading Course	1		Fall, Winter & Summer terms	Reading courses are intended to add flexibility to your MLIS program by providing you with an opportunity to develop a specific interest in the information management field.  A reading course will enable you to study an aspect of a topic in greater detail than is possible within an existing course, or study an area not covered by the curriculum.  Reading courses also allow you to conduct a research study or special project.	NO SYLLABUS
INFO6750	Health Sciences Literature and Information Sources	1	Winter	alternating even years	Introduces students to the concepts and practice of health science librarianship with particular emphasis on the various print and electronic reference sources in the health sciences.	
INFO6800	Archives	1	Winter	Every year	Provides an overview of the issues and practices of archival science, with emphasis on Canadian approaches. Considers principles of acquisition, arrangement, description, reference and use of archival records, along with the management of archives and the relationship between archival work and other divisions of the information professions.	
INFO6810	Managing Information Literacy Instruction	1	Winter	Every year	This course introduces selected theories and methods for managing processes designed to educate students, patrons, and clients in information research skills. Concepts covered relate to the design, implementation, evaluation, and management of instructional programs for a wide array of clients/patrons. Lectures and discussions include relevant theories of learning and a consideration of how these approaches may be effectively managed for client instruction.	
INFO6840	Content Management Systems	4	Fall	Every year	Introduces the requirements and technologies of networked content management systems. Follows the evolution of the digital content and its impact on information dissemination. Examines issues and trends influencing the development and structure of content management.	
INFO6850	Special Topics in Information Management	1			Builds on topics introduced in required courses, particularly those dealing with applications of information technology in information management. This course will take a more in-depth look at the major topics in the field. The content will change rapidly as the field progresses. Current topics include: information ethics, design of usable information systems, digital media, network design, electronic communication, software lifecycle management, and design of an information-based organization.	NO SYLLABUS
INFO6860	Archives II	1	Fall	Every year	This course will consider advanced topics in archives, with an emphasis on Canadian practice. It will provide an overview of the management of archives by closely examining topics including donor relations, archival and monetary appraisal, multi-level archival description, project management, and public service.	
INFO9000.06	x/y Thesis	1			Select this course code and number if you are a regular thesis-option MLIS student. For more details, see the Thesis Guide.	NO SYLLABUS
INFO9000.12	Thesis	1			Select this course code and number if you are a FUNDED (e.g. SSHRC Award) thesis-option MLIS student. For more details, see the Thesis Guide.	NO SYLLABUS
INFO9003	Thesis Continuing	1			All thesis-option MLIS students who are continuing work on their thesis must register for this course. For more details, see the Thesis Guide.	NO SYLLABUS
MGMT5000	Management Without Borders	3	Fall	Every year	This course places management in its broadest context and helps students from diverse disciplines explore the complex social, economic, ecological, political and technological forces shaping 21st century leadership in the public, private and non-profit sectors. The course is characterized by a strong emphasis on teamwork and effective problem solving in inter-professional environments. The major focus of the course is the MWB group project.  Interdisciplinary teams of 5 students will spend the semester working on live projects hosted by organizations from across Nova Scotia. The primary goals of the projects are for the student groups to provide value to the host organization and for the host organization to contribute to the professional and academic development of the students. Additionally, these projects are intended to provide students with the opportunity to experience the complexities of an inter-professional work environment; develop / hone tools and skill sets that are part of various professional disciplines; gain a greater understanding of the issues at hand when organizations work to integrate the seemingly disparate worlds of governance, business, environment and society; and develop leadership and teamwork skills that can be transferred to future work experiences. Weekly tutorial sessions provide student groups with time to consult with faculty coaches, teaching assistants and project groups. Weekly plenary sessions are synergistically linked to the group projects. The first few plenary sessions of the semester are designed to launches the class and cover key topics related to MWB group projects. The first teaching module focuses on relevant management theory in areas such as collaboration, conflict management, stakeholder engagement and managing innovation and creativity. The second module aims to examine how the aforementioned management theories play out in the context of complex, cross-boundary issues. Plenary lectures are taught by MWB faculty members and guest speakers.	
MGMT5001	Information, People and Society	2	Fall		An introduction to the economic, political and social dimensions of an information-rich environment. This course includes consideration of the historical development of information and knowledge production, issues of control versus free flow of information, applications of information management (IM) in support of situational understanding and decision-making, the organization of knowledge, and the ethical and legal aspects of IM.	
MGMT5002	Organization of Information	2	Winter		This class examines the various means by which information can be organized to facilitate its retrieval, management and use. The class also provides an overview of the principles and theories of metadata development and implementation in the digital environment. Metadata interoperability, vocabulary control, standardization, quality control and evaluation are emphasized. An introduction to the principles of information architecture is also included, as they interconnect with best practices in the organization of information.	
MGMT5003	Information Systems and Technologies	2	Fall		This class makes clear the relationship between IT and information management, often misconstrued in organizations. The class includes theories of databases and integrated systems design, allied with practical applications of a wide range of information technologies to support organizational goals. These include traditional intranet and extranet applications, along with emerging web 2.0 technologies. Concepts of information architecture (IA) relating to the design of shared and often web-based information environments (including intranets, databases and online communities) are introduced. The practices of IA are examined through analyses of real organizations and how the information environment can best serve their missions, goals, processes and their clients, suppliers and other stakeholders.	
MGMT5004	User Experience	2	Summer		Understanding theories and practices of human-computer interaction is critical to organizational success. This class explores how technology affects human use and examines the process (from conception of an idea to design and evaluation) – with a particular emphasis on web-based activities. The class discusses individual and group information-seeking behaviours in public and private contexts – along with the theories and models of information-seeking behaviour that contribute to a nuanced understanding of the user experience.	
MGMT5005	Information Policy	2	Fall		Under Canadian law, all government and corporations must appoint someone to take responsibility for privacy within their respective organization – and all government and selected other agencies are required to delegate staff responsible for information access and privacy. This class explores a range of critical information-related issues facing organizations and the effects of policies and legislation on information management and organizational effectiveness. Topics include access to information, freedom of information, protection of privacy and the preservation of information. Professional ethics guiding information professionals are discussed, as is compliance. In addition, this class also discusses the roles of all levels of government, the private and not-for-profit sectors and key individuals in developing policies that affect information creation, control, access and use. While this class focuses on Canadian issues, it also includes international perspectives.	
MGMT5006	Program Evaluation	2	Fall		Program evaluation is a structured approach to assessing program delivery with a goal of continuous improvement. This class introduces theories and techniques of evaluation including goal-setting, planning, design, development of indicators and measures, data collection, qualitative and quantitative analysis and legislative frameworks. Case studies based on your workplace experiences are discussed. The class then concludes with a discussion and study of how to build evaluation capacity in your organization.	
MGMT5007	Research Methods	2	Fall		This class introduces concepts, methods (both quantitative and qualitative), and the practices of research that support evidence-based information management practice. The class addresses the nature and uses of research, tools for research, handling of evidence, analysis and interpretation of findings, reporting of results, evaluation of published reports and the management of research.	
MGMT5008	Knowledge Management	2	Winter		Knowledge management (KM) encompasses a range of theories and practices relating to the creation, identification, accumulation and application of knowledge to meet organizational goals. This class discusses theories of KM, intellectual capital and learning organizations – along with practices for efficient and effective harnessing of organizational knowledge. You’ll adopt an integrative approach, based on the key KM theories and concepts developed in the past decade applied across a wide range of organizational settings.	
MGMT5009	Collaboration	1	Summer		Geographically dispersed virtual workplace teams that cross time, space and organizational boundaries are increasingly common. As a result, information managers are more and more frequently called on to ensure these teams have effective decision-making processes, a common purpose and interdependent organizational and performance goals, and that they can contribute to organizational strategic goals. This class introduces theories and concepts relating to the rationale for, benefits and challenges of, virtual teams; steps for developing effective virtual teams, and examples of the technology you can use to support such teams.	
MGMT5010	Project Management	1	Summer		This class introduces theories and practices of project management (PM) related to project objectives, development stages and control variables such as time, cost and scope. PM stages include initiation, development, execution and maintenance. This class explores these stages by using workplace case studies that relate to your professional experience. Adaptive as well as pre-planned methods and approaches, including process-based systems, critical path and event chain, are used.	
MGMT5011	Management of Privacy	1	Summer		This course provides an overview of privacy and how it impacts organizations in both the private and public sectors. In this course we will address the various ways of identifying and mitigating privacy risk.	
MGMT5012	Records Management	1	Winter		How organizations engage in document or records management has a direct bearing on their efficiency and effectiveness – including their legal and ethical compliance. This class offers a comprehensive introduction to the field of records and information management in all formats including (though not limited to) paper and digital. Topics covered include record creation, evaluation, maintenance and control – as well as issues relating to the maintenance, storage and disposal of records.	
MGMT5020	Case Study or Research Project	3	Winter		Based on your learning objectives, you may choose either a case study or a research project as your final assessed item. Please note: this class is mandatory. Please note also that you should take either MGMT5006 or MGMT5007 to prepare for this class. Throughout this class you will work with an advisor and under the general supervision of the class instructor to complete a case study or a project of special relevance to your workplace. Case studies and projects are assessed on the extent to which they demonstrate application of the theories and techniques explored throughout our entire program.	
